Arduino Composter
February 16 2018

Compost is organic material that can be added to soil to help plants grow. 
Yard waste and food scraps currently make up 20 to 30 percent of what Americans throw away. 
Making a composter keeps less materials out of landfills and reduces the release of methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
A few reasons people choose not to compost is that is hard work and needs to be monitored. 
Having a system that would alleviate some of the hassle of composting may encourage more people to participate in composting. 
My goal for this project is to use a DC motor connected to a battery charged by a solar cell to rotate a barrel. 
Rotating the barrel with a motor can be achieved in two ways or a combination of both. 
First, you could have a stepdown geared motor with a high torque and low RPM using a v-belt to turn the barrel. 
Second, you could have the barrel on a set of rollers or wheels on a base that are controlled similarly using a motor. 
In the future, some additional requirements that I would like to implement in the project is a measurement of the moisture in the soil. 
This device will help by notifying the user if water needs to be added and when to tumble the material in the barrel. 
To achieve these additional requirements, a moisture sensor and pH sensor could be used to measure the material inside the barrel.
A 12-volt solenoid valve connected to a small 5-gallon bucket could be applied in the design. 
I already have built this portion with my previous project and could implement it in to the design, 
though it would need to be expanded to add the moisture and pH sensor. 

Bill of Materials – Electronic 
Arduino UNO
DC Motor – need to find a stepdown geared motor with low torque and high rpm
12-volt battery
18v solar cell
Charge controller
Humidity sensor
pH sensor 
Moisture sensor 
5-12v voltage reducer. – prevent the board from shorting.  
Relay 
Bread board 
Jumper wires 


Bill of Materials – Raw
1 ½ Steel rods
Equipment for welding. Plasma cutter/wire feed arch weld/steel cutter
Drill – to make air vents. 
Barrel 
